BRUTAL OP25
Built on boatbod/op25, with credit to the original OP25 contributors.
Independent development project; no upstream endorsement is implied.
Upstream receiver sources and license notices remain in /opt/op25 in the image.
Do not strip notices when publishing the eventual repository/release.

Development installation - Linux first, terminal onboarding

Windows entrypoint: double-click Launch-Brutal-OP25.cmd, or run it from
PowerShell. Do not use a bare docker run.
On the first guided run, setup creates a per-user Start menu shortcut named
Brutal OP25. Search Start for that name on later runs; the shortcut reopens
the same guided launcher. --check does not create a shortcut.
The CMD bootstrap uses Windows' built-in PowerShell for WSL installation and
the USB bridge only. A process-local execution-policy bypass does not change
machine policy; enterprise Group Policy can still block it. PowerShell 7 and
Docker Desktop are not prerequisites. The first run offers official Ubuntu
24.04 in WSL and Docker Engine from Docker's official Ubuntu apt repository.
A Windows reboot is reported if WSL requires one. Subsequent runs start Ubuntu
directly, without a Docker Desktop window, account, or background app.
Launch-Brutal-OP25.cmd --check is read-only.
--backup writes a saved-system ZIP under Documents/Brutal OP25 Backups while
the receiver is stopped; --restore requires that ZIP's full path and refuses
conflicting saved-system IDs. --update-image explicitly fetches the referenced
release, leaving the current image unchanged on download failure. A successful
update retains the previous image for --rollback-image. Neither command
deletes the separate saved-system volume.
Inside the Linux wizard, Connect my radio now sends a fixed connect_usb request
with a per-launch random nonce and exit code 88. The WSL launcher validates it,
asks Windows to share only the selected USB radio, and resumes the same wizard
with that exact Linux USB node. The container has no Windows command socket or
Docker socket. Ctrl+C detaches a radio attached by this launcher.
When the dashboard starts, the Windows launcher opens it in the
default browser after port 8080 serves the Brutal OP25 page. The local link
http://127.0.0.1:8080/ is also shown in the console. If browser opening is
blocked, open that link manually. A bare Docker run has no USB handoff and is
not the supported Windows launch path. Existing Docker Desktop profiles are not
automatically migrated; the dedicated Ubuntu Engine has its own data volume.
The Windows bridge installer is pinned by SHA-256 and publisher signature.
USB nodes are checked by serial and vendor/product ID before one node is passed
to the container. Windows/WSL admin prompts remain visible when required.
The RTL-SDR Blog V4 was identified and sampled with zero reported loss in a
short WSL-native container test. A fresh manual AARRS test profile then decoded
a live P25 control channel (WACN 0x91F78, system 0x0D2, site 50.50, NAC 0x3C).
Browser speech remains unverified on this path. The test profile was archived
so the next run opens fresh onboarding. RSPdx-R2 reception remains unverified.

From this source directory on native Linux or WSL:
  bash install-brutal-op25.sh

Native Linux setup creates ~/.local/bin/brutal-op25 for later runs without
editing shell startup files. Run that path immediately, or type brutal-op25
after the next login if ~/.local/bin is on PATH. WSL uses the Windows shortcut.
For a portable backup on native Linux, run
  bash install-brutal-op25.sh --backup
and restore with --restore /full/path/systems.zip while no receiver runs.
The future public bootstrap/ scripts use GitHub source archives, not Git/SSH;
they preserve the previous program folder when updating. Public anonymous
downloads cannot be tested until repository and image publication.

On supported Ubuntu and Debian versions, this checks for Docker Engine and
offers installation from Docker's official apt repository. It never silently
removes conflicting packages or adds the user to the root-equivalent docker
group. It may request sudo for Docker service and image access. A missing base
image is fetched automatically when the prebuilt release is accessible;
otherwise it is built locally. --build forces a source build on native Linux.
Other native Linux distributions can install a local Docker Engine themselves,
then use the same launcher. WSL uses the Ubuntu-local Engine and the Windows
USB bridge. bash install-brutal-op25.sh --check is read-only.

For import/manage without USB:
  bash brutal-op25.sh --no-usb

The launcher detects a sole supported radio automatically, or offers a choice
when there are several. It passes only the chosen node into the container and
adds its group. On native Linux it can grant group access to only that USB
node (until the node is recreated), with sudo when required; it never uses a
privileged container or mounts home/Downloads. For persistent shared-device
policy, an administrator may prefer a targeted udev rule. Windows/WSL
users first forward their radio into Linux; native Linux needs no Windows helper.
Disconnect/reconnect may change a USB node; rerun the launcher to select it.

The terminal stores new profiles in the separate brutal-op25-data volume.
Older prototype data is not migrated or automatically selected.
It requires a TTY. Credentials/application keys are prompted only for RR
imports/updates, kept in memory, and never bundled or saved as profile data.
RadioReference imports require each user's own Premium account. A prebuilt
release contains a recoverable client application key, so users never enter one. Their
credentials go directly from the local receiver to RadioReference, not to a
Brutal OP25 server. The app key is extractable from the image by a determined
recipient; compilation only deters casual copying. For local source builds
without the release helper, provide BRUTAL_RR_APP_KEY at runtime or mount a
key file at /run/secrets/radioreference_app_key. The launchers mount only that
file read-only, never its containing directory; .setup-cache remains excluded
from Git and the build context. Without any key, import reports an app setup
issue before asking for user credentials. Confirm key distribution terms
before making the image public.
Supported SDR presets use their starting defaults automatically; custom setup
alone asks for sample rate, named gains, and PPM. Normal import defaults to
CQPSK demodulation without a technical settings question.

Menus: listen to saved system, import P25, manage/update, radio check, manual P25.
An empty profile store launches first-run onboarding automatically: choose a
radio, then import a system or skip to the dashboard Systems panel to add
multiple systems. Skipping never starts listening by itself. The returning-user menu
appears only after a profile is saved. Cancelling before saving leaves no
completed installation, so the next launch offers first-run setup again.
Radio prerequisites may be checked again or finished later; saving a profile
does not mark reception as tested. Failed account/application configuration
returns to source selection without asking for an application key.
Interactive Linux menus use arrow keys, Enter, Page Up/Down and type-to-search;
Escape cancels. Country defaults to United States when listed by RadioReference.
Plain terminals retain numbered menus and accept Enter for a default selection.
BRUTAL_NUMBERED_MENUS=1 forces numbered menus. Multiple systems
may be saved, but one system/site is active at a time. Ctrl+C stops reception.
Site changes and updates preserve history. Encrypted voice cannot be decoded.

The base image includes a pinned RTL-SDR Blog V4-capable driver. A local Blog V4
received the AARRS Northeast Simulcast site with clear browser speech. This is
one-device, one-host validation, not a compatibility guarantee. RSPdx-R2
hardware reception/audio remains unverified and requires the private,
license-accepted SDRplay addon; do not publish proprietary vendor software
without distribution permission. On first RSPdx-R2 selection, the native
Linux launcher downloads the official vendor package, verifies the pinned
checksum, presents the full license, and builds the private addon only if
the user types ACCEPT. The WSL launcher has the same terminal-gated flow. Vendor
updates that change the checksum must be verified before updating this pin.
To build from an official SDRplay Linux 3.15.2 package obtained separately:
  bash install/build-sdrplay.sh /path/to/official-installer
This verifies the pinned checksum, displays the complete license, requires
typing ACCEPT, and builds brutal-op25-sdrplay:0.3.0-dev.4-local from an isolated
vendor context containing only that installer, not its parent directory.
No license is accepted by automated tests. The user approved the SDRplay license
and the private addon was built locally; its software factory check passed, but
the RSPdx-R2 device and reception have not yet been tested.

No public image/repository has been published yet. BRUTAL_OP25_IMAGE can choose
a tested local image now, or a future versioned registry image once released.
Users of a published image will not need to compile OP25. Signing, registry
publication, architecture coverage and broader hardware validation remain.
No browser is required for terminal onboarding; the optional skip path opens
the existing Systems panel before any receiver runs. During reception, the live dashboard/audio
endpoints are available on localhost:8080/9000; a runtime copy of boatbod's UI
has the Brutal theme, upstream credit, and no Legacy UI entry. Upstream sources
and license notices remain in /opt/op25. The build applies a narrow patch to
the pinned upstream audio WebSocket so unrelated browser origins are rejected.
The receiver skin uses a page-wide operations bar, numbered monitor/traffic/
signal-analysis panels, a tactical grid/radar motif, and restrained #0FFF50
accents. It does not invent signal status or imply agency affiliation.
The RTL and private local SDRplay images
both carry the same UI files; no external image/API service is required.
Saved RadioReference labels are HTML-escaped in a versioned prepared receiver copy,
never rewritten in the
saved system library. Existing profiles regenerate this copy on next launch.
The Home, Plot, Settings, View Config, and About panels were checked in a
headless browser against the running receiver's real read-only dashboard data.
Display preferences, reload persistence, narrow-screen layout, and receiver
button command wiring were exercised; command-changing requests were intercepted
and NOT sent to the live radio during this UI audit. Plot generation, capture,
and other receiver-changing actions still need separate hands-on verification.
The dashboard now opens with its Plot panel visible. A new prepared receiver
revision starts all six native OP25 plots (spectrum, constellation, symbol,
datascope, mixer and tuner) without browser-side toggle commands. Individual
plot buttons can still disable a plot to reduce CPU load. When the UI watchdog
closes plots after the browser disconnects, the runtime remembers which plots
were active and restores that selection on the next dashboard update. This
behavior is exercised in source/browser tests; live reception with the new
startup default still needs a guided relaunch. Existing saved profiles remain
unchanged and are regenerated in a versioned receiver copy on that relaunch.
Early plot creation exposed boatbod's terminal initialization order: the
terminal type is still unset when channel plots are constructed, so gnuplot
otherwise attempts X11 and prints "unknown or ambiguous terminal type" in a
headless image. Our runtime-only patch reads the pending HTTP terminal settings
for those early sinks, selecting PNG output in /data/runtime/www/images. The
original upstream file remains unchanged. An isolated image check generated a
PNG, and a regression test exercised the patched early-destination method;
the user's receiver still needs a guided relaunch for live verification.

SYSTEMS PANEL (add, switch and remove systems from the dashboard)
The dashboard has a Systems button. Saved lists every saved system with Listen and
Remove; "Add from RadioReference" signs in (the login is held in memory only, never
saved or logged) and browses country > state > county > system > site; "Add manually"
takes control-channel frequencies. Everything saved is stored in the same library the
terminal menu uses, so systems added in the browser appear in the terminal next time.
Switching restarts OP25 for a few seconds of silence; the page reloads itself when the
new system is up. Systems saved for a different radio family than the one connected
(RTL-SDR vs RSPdx-R2) are listed but cannot be started from the browser; relaunch with
that radio. New systems inherit the radio settings that are listening now. Removing a
system archives its file under saved-profiles/history/removed and the listening system
cannot be removed. The status strip shows the live system, uptime and receiver state;
if OP25 stops, a banner offers Restart, and opening the page while it is down shows a
recovery page. How it works: a small supervisor (brutal_supervisor.py) owns port 8080,
answers /brutal/api/* itself and proxies everything else to OP25 on a private loopback
port. It accepts only loopback host names, requires a per-run token on every change,
exposes no Docker or USB control, and logs no credentials. Verified on a throwaway
receiver fed synthetic noise (switching, manual add, validation, removal, crash
recovery, clean shutdown) with a fake RadioReference client; a real RadioReference
sign-in and a real RSPdx-R2 switch still need hands-on verification.

LISTENING CONTROLS (Talkgroups, Radio IDs, Advanced tabs and the volume slider)
These tabs act on the system that is listening. Talkgroups: every talkgroup can be Priority, Normal or
Blocked. OP25 prefers the lower priority number (Priority is written as 1, the default is 3), so a Priority
call interrupts a lower one already playing; a manual hold is never interrupted. Blocked talkgroups are
never followed. "Only my Priority talkgroups" turns the Priority set into a listen-only list. Categories
(Fire, Police, ...) come from RadioReference's talkgroup category list, saved with new imports; an older
system can fetch them from the Talkgroups tab after signing in. Radio IDs: RadioReference's API has no
operation for individual radios, so names are typed by you; a named radio shows its name in the Source box
and call history. Names are HTML-escaped in the receiver's copy and kept as typed in the saved system.
Advanced: encrypted talkgroups are skipped by default (OP25 crypt_behavior 2); the alternative is OP25's own
default (1), which does not skip them, and without keys their audio cannot be decoded. Hold time is how long
OP25 stays on a talkgroup after a call ends (0 to 30 seconds; OP25's default is 2). Every change is saved as
a new revision of the system (older revisions stay in saved-profiles/history) and the receiver restarts for a
few seconds, because OP25 reads these files at startup. Volume: a slider in the status strip (0 to 150 percent,
remembered per browser) scales all browser audio through one gain node; it does not change the receiver.
The dashboard tries to start audio at normal volume immediately. Browsers may suspend Web Audio until
the first user interaction; only then does an ENABLE AUDIO button appear. Muted-at-startup remains an
explicit browser preference. Audio received while suspended is discarded, not replayed later.
Verified on a throwaway receiver fed synthetic noise with a fake RadioReference: category loading, search,
bulk and per-row marking, apply and restart, listen-only mode and its safeguard, radio names including
click-to-name and HTML escaping, encrypted behavior and hold time reaching OP25's config and log, and the
volume slider through the dashboard's own audio code. Priority interruption and radio names showing on a
live call were not observed: they need real traffic.
